# HW18: Chapter 21 & 22

## 21.4) Ex 21.4 Explain why an object-oriented approach to software development may not be suitable for real-time systems.

Being abstracted and more in line with how humans think, object-oriented languages allow for code to "flow" much easier and can produce pretty good results for general purpose problem solving and for learning the concepts of programming. But that abstraction comes with a downside, it creates overhead during runtime that, for realtime systems, can lead to massive reductions in efficiency. In low-level languages you address memory (and even registers) directly and work as close to the "metal" as you can, where as languages like Java live higher up. This allows for simpler implementation and the aformentioned human-like code flow, but the cost of that abstraction is just to high for low-latency systems running in realtime, where milliseconds cost money.

## 22.6) Fixed-price contracts, where the contractor bids a fixed price to complete a system development, may be used to move project risk from client to contractor. If anything goes wrong, the contractor has to pay. Suggest how the use of such contracts may increase the likelihood that product risks will arise.

Although the risk is pushed from the client to the contractor if we assume the project will get done well, there is always the inherent risk of the contractor not being able to meet the obligations and causing downtime, recontracting, or worse for the client. These kind of projects can lead to cost cutting on the contractor's side, which may not inherently cause issues but it can be determental in the long run 